hi there J of Canadian energy today
we're going to have a look at battery
Isolators how they're used and why
they're used in a dual battery system so
typically your vehicle is going to come
with one battery which is your starting
battery you want to go ahead and add an
exhilarating or a house battery to run
your accessory DC loads whether it be a
winch or other DC appliances that you
have on your vehicle in order to go
ahead and do this what we'll need to do
is go in and change the o-ring wire oh
my ring harness on the vehicle we're
going to go ahead and remove the wire
that goes from the starting battery to
the alternator and bring it to terminal
one from there we'll need to make up a
new wire from our Ziller battery bring
it into terminal 2 on our battery
isolator make sure that we use the
appropriate size fusing in between the
auxilary battery and the battery
isolator from there what we'll need to
do is make up a new wire gauged
appropriately for the current and the
size of the alternator to run from the a
terminal back to our alternator from
there what will happen when the
alternator is charging we'll go ahead
and charge both batteries the starting
battery and the axillary battery when
there's no charge coming from the
alternator and we're running our
accessory loads
we're not taking any energy out of our
starting battery therefore leaving the
starting battery fully charged to
restart the vehicle doesn't matter what
the state of charge of our auxiliary
battery is once a vehicle restarts it's
going to go ahead and take care of any
charge that's needed on the starting
battery and any charge that's needed on
the auxiliary battery the battery
Isolators are sized in amperage so we
have to be sure that we get the
appropriate sized amperage isolator the
corresponds to our alternator battery
Isolators come in multiple inputs for
multiple alternators and multiple
outputs for multiple batteries
sizes right from 70 amps right up to 300
amps so there you go a little bit on
battery Isolators see you soon